# Tasks to Complete

## AWS Account

Make an AWS (Amazon Web Services) account if you have not already done so [here](https://aws.amazon.com/) (click Sign into the Console and Create a new AWS account). You will have to include your credit/debit card information, so we will be careful with what choices we use to stay within AWS's free tier.

## Create OracleSQL Database on AWS

1. Under Services, choose RDS (Relational Database Service)
2. Click Create Database
3. Select Oracle & Oracle Standard Edition 2
4. Select "Only enable options eligible for RDS Free Usage Tier"
  - If this option is not shown, there should be a notification at the top that lets you switch to the original interface, click that
5. Click Next
6. Change DB engine version to Oracle 12.1.0.2v19
  - DB instance class should say "db.t3.micro -- 2 vCPU, 1 GiB RAM"
  - This is the only option, which is fine
7. Disable Storage autoscaling
8. Choose a DB instance identifier, such as "training"
9. Choose a Master username and password, such as "root" and "password"
  - You may of course name these whatever you like, but make sure you remember them
  - We will only use this for training, so it isn't super paramount to have good passwords
10. Virtual Private Cloud Settings can be left alone
11. Public Accessibility: Yes
12. Create new VPC Security Group (We'll configure it later)
13. The database name can be changed if you like, but leaving it as "ORCL" is acceptable
  - Do not modify the port
14. Disable Monitoring and Performance Insights (This is most likely acceptable to leave enabled, but it's just to be 100% sure that we aren't charged)
15. Click Create Database

### Configure Security Group

1. Once the Database is fully created, go back to the RDS Dashboard, select your newly created instance, and click the second link under VPC Security Groups
2. Select the Inbound tab at the bottom, and hit edit
3. Click Add Rule, Choose Oracle-RDS as the type and My IP for the Source
  - This will allow your current IP address to have access to your RDS
  - This means that you will NOT have access anywhere else
  - If you do this at work, you won't have access at home until you add an additional rule for that IP as well
  - Keep this in mind
4. Click Save

## Install DBeaver Community Edition 7.0.0

[DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io/download/?start&os=win&arch=x86_64) is a GUI application that we can leverage to connect to our OracleSQL database that is in the cloud.
We configure a *Connection* in DBeaver. DBeaver itself is NOT a database, it simply can be configured to connect to one, specifically, we will connect it to the RDS we made earlier.
We need to give it the endpoint and port of our RDS as well as the corresponding database name, username, and password that we configured while setting up the database.
Make sure you have properly configured your VPC Security Group!

Make sure that when installing, you include the sample database to tinker with. Just keep in mind that it is technically set up to use SQLite. It should have mostly the same syntax as OracleSQL, since a lot of the SQL syntax is standardized.

I would recommend installing to the specific user, instead of system-wide. For Windows users, that is C:/Users/username/AppData/Local/DBeaver

## Read SQL Notes

Review the SQL notes in the week 2 folder of the [Batch Repository](https://github.com/200224java/demos)

Go through at least tutorials 1 - 5 on [SQL Bolt](https://sqlbolt.com/)

## Hackerrank

Attempt at least 2 Hackerrank problems for some continued practice.

## Enthuware

Take one of the Enthuware Practice tests (Not including the Foundational Test). If you have not taken any, take Test 1. Otherwise, just take another one that you haven't taken yet and send me a message with how you scored.

## Helpful Resources

[SQL Fiddle](http://sqlfiddle.com/) is a convenient browser based SQL environment. Keep in mind you need to change the SQL Dialect to Oracle 11g R2.
Note, this particular version doesn't support auto-increment yet, so the syntax would have to be modified to include the id's in the INSERT statements and remove the "GENERATED BY DEFAULT ON NULL AS IDENTITY"

There are also these:
* [SQL Zoo](http://sqlzoo.net/wiki/SQL_Tutorial)
* [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/)
